1.	What is Default replication factor and how will you change it at file level?
Ans: The replication factor is 3 by default. By using setrep command can change the replication factor of a file to a specific count instead of the default replication factor.
2.	Why do we need replication factor > 1 in production Hadoop cluster?
Ans: one block copy is stored in one data node of none rack and other two copies in different data nodes.
3.	How will you combine the 4 part-r files of a mapreduce job?
Ans: By using Hadoop -getmerge command we can combine part files in hdfs.
4.	What are the Compression techniques in HDFS, and which is the best one and why?
Ans:  GZIP,BZIP2,LZO and SNAPPY. The best technique is BZIP2 because it provides high compression ratio.
5.	How will you view the compressed files via HDFS command?
Ans: Hadoop fs -ls command
6.	What is Secondary Name node and its Functionalities? why do we need it?
Ans: Secondary name node is just to have a checkpoint in HDFS. It just helps Name node to function in a better way.
7.	What is Backup node and how is it different from Secondary name node?
Ans: Backup node is an extended checkpoint node that performs checkpointing and also supports online streaming of file system edits.
8.	What is FSimage and editlogs and how they are related?
Ans: Edit log: It holds the sequence of changes made to the filesystem after Name node started.
fsimage: It is the snapshot of the filesystem when the Name node starts.
9.	what is default block size in HDFS? and why is it so large?
Ans: The default size is 128 MB. The reason of so large is to minimize the cost of seek and reduce the meta data  information generated per block.
10.	How will you copy a large file of 50GB into HDFS in parallel?
Ans: 1. create a directory.
2.creates an empty file.
3. hdfs dfs -put: To copy files/folders from local file system to hdfs store.
 4. cat: To print file contents.
11.	what is Balancing in HDFS?
Ans: It balances data across the Data nodes. It keeps on moving blocks until the cluster is deemed to be balanced.
12.	What is expunge in HDFS?
Ans: To empty the trash in an HDFS system.
