
1.	What is the default replication factor of Hadoop cluster?
a.	3
b.	2
c.	4
d.	1
     Ans : a

2.	Which component in Hadoop Cluster is responsible for serving read and write requests from the file system's clients?
a.	Name Node
b.	Data Node
c.	Both a & b
d.	None of the above

       Ans : b

3.	Which component of Hadoop Cluster manages the file system namespace and regulates access to files by clients?
a.	Name Node
b.	Data Node
c.	Both a & b
d.	None of the above
       Ans : c

4.	If a file size of size 100 MB is stored on HDFS, what would be the split size?
a.	64 MB & 64 MB
b.	64 MB & 36 MB
c.	100 MB
d.	None of the above
      Ans : b

5.	State true or false: MR2 support various MPP modes for data processing?
a.	FALSE
b.	True
     Ans : a

6.	Which comand of HDFS helps copy files from HDFS to Local file system?
a.	copyFromLocal
b.	copyToLocal
c.	put
d.	mv
     Ans : b

7.	Which Eco system component of Hadoop is good for non sql programmers?
a.	Hive
b.	Hbase
c.	Flume
d.	Pig
     Ans : a
8.	Block size of a Hadoop cluster is configurable by Administrator?
a.	TRUE
b.	FALSE
    Ans : a

9.	The functions performed by DataNodes in Hadoop Cluster is/are?
 
a.	Data Block Creation
b.	Data Block Deletion
c.	Data Block Replication
d.	All above
 Ans : d

10.	Find error in below command:
hdfs dfs -put /home/user1/abc.txt

a.	Target name missing
b.	Source name should include hdfs://
c.	No error
      Ans : a

11.	Hadoop block size should be multiple of which unit?
a.	32 MB
b.	50 MB
c.	64 MB
d.	70 MB
      Ans : c
12.	Which component of the hadoop cluster manages data on slave nodes?
a.	Name node
b.	Data Node
c.	Task Tracker
d.	Job Tracker
   Ans : b

13.	MR1 and MR2 are two modes of processing in Hadoop?
a.	TRUE
b.	FALSE
    Ans : a

14.	What is Hadoop?
a.	Open source software for reliable, scalable, distributed computing.
b.	A framework that allows for the distributed processing of large data sets across clusters of computers using simple programming models.
c.	Both a & b
d.	None of the above
       Ans : c

15.	Hadoop provides
a.	A reliable distributed storage and processing system
b.	Only distributed storage
c.	Only processing system
d.	None of the above
      Ans : a






QUESTION AND ANSWERS

1.	What is Default replication factor and how will you change it at file level ?

Ans : The replication factor is 3 by default and any file create in HDFS the replication factor  3 and each block of the file copied by 3 diff nodes in cluster.

2.	Why do we need replication factor > 1 in production Hadoop cluster?

Ans :  HDFS stores one copy of block of data in one node of one Rack and other two copies in different nodes of different Rack. This ensures Fault tolerance.

3.	How will you combine the 4 part-r files of a mapreduce job?

Ans : In order to merge two or more files into one single file and store it in hdfs , need to have a folder in the hdfs path containg the files that will be merge.

4.	What are the Compression techniques in HDFS and which is the best one and why?

Ans : Snappy is best way to compression because it is provided by google.
          Bzip
          Gzip 
5.	How will you view the compressed files via HDFS command?

Ans : Gzip
          Hdfs dfs -put logs.jar.gz/filename.

6.	What is Secondary Namenode and its Functionalities? why do we need it?

Ans :  The main function the secondary namenode is to store the last copy the fsimages and edit log files. The namenode is store the copy of the fsimages and edit logs.

7.	What is Backup node and how is it different from Secondary namenode ?

            Ans: Secondar NameNode is not a backup of NameNode we can call it as helper of 
                     NameNode.  The Namenode is the deamon which maintain and manage the 
                     Datanodes. NameNode is the backupNode in Hdfs

8.	  What is FSimage and editlogs and how they are related ?
             Ans :  Editlogs is a transaction log the record the changes in hdfs file system.
                     Fsimages is a file stored on the OS filesystem that contains the complete directory
                     Structure of the hdfs.
9.	what is default block size in HDFS? and why is it so large?
Ans :  The default size of the HDFS Block 128 MB.  The reason for to minimize the cost seek.

10.	How will you copy a large file of 50GB into HDFS in parallel ?
Ans : To use the CP command . The data will be store in to blocks if any block is failed the other block is having all the data.

11.	what is Balancing in HDFS?
Ans :  The HDFC balancer utility is analyse block and balancing data across the DataNodes.

12.	What is expunge in HDFS ?
Ans : This command is empty and available in HDFS system.
         Command :  Hdfs dfs – expunge